# mesh2frep

This is a program that converts manifold surface meshes (in particular, STLs that can be tetrahedronalized by TetGen) into
[Unit Gradient Fields](https://www.blakecourter.com/ugfs/) (UGFs) parsable by [Fidget](https://github.com/mkeeter/fidget).

## Algorithm Overview

This program uses a relatively complex representation of the tetrahedronalized mesh to produce a UGF. The process is as follows:
- Tetrahedronalize the input STL such that there is a list of tetrahedrons and a list of surface triangles.
- For each tetrahedron, create a piecewise function that returns 0 if we are inside the tetrahedron and 1 if we are outside the tetrahedron.
- For each triangle, create a piecewise function with the following cases:
  - If we are outside the prism formed by extending the triangle infinitely along its surface normal in both directions:
    - Create a union of three zero radius capsules, where each capsule is positioned along a unique triangle edge. Note that these capsules are defined as piecewise functions,
      so they do not increase in length when stepping away from the zero surface of the field. These capsules have unit gradients.
  - Else, we are inside the prism:
    - Create a plane where the triangle is, with unit gradients.
- Union the triangles via the min function.
- Create one last piecewise function, such that if the product of the tetrahedron piecewise functions is zero we negate the union of triangles, else we simply return the union
  of triangles.

You may think of this union of triangles as an infinitely thin zero surface where the manifold surface mesh exists with unit gradients. The trick used is to simply negate the
field when inside the mesh, thus resulting in a nicely behaving UGF.

## UGF Behavior

Of note, the UGF generated by this program behaves nicely at sharp edges - subtracting a constant value, `c`, from the field should result in the equivalent of adding the
Minkowski sum of a sphere of radius `c` to the original surface.
